
The following text is copied "as is" from https://powo.science.kew.org/about-wcvp#lifeforms.

#####

Life-forms

The terminology for life-forms, definitions of which follow, is based on the system of Raunkiær (1934, especially chapters 1 and 2) with modifications derived from Flora van België, het Groothertogdom Luxemburg, Noord-Frankrijk en aangrenzende gebieden (De Langhe et al. 1983: pp. xvii-xviii, 869 (fig. 16)). Many plant families have their own particular lifeforms. It is therefore only attempted to give a very broad and general lifeform, mainly to aid global searches over different groups. On the POWO website, only the English forms are shown.

Main Categories:

phanerophyte (phan.) tree
stems: woody and persisting for several years
buds: normally above 3 m
e.g.: small and large trees

herbaceous phanerophyte (herb. phan.) herbaceous tree
stems: herbaceous and persisting for several years
buds: above soil-level
e.g.: Musa balbisiana

nanophanerophyte (nanophan.) shrub
stems: woody and persisting for several years
buds: above soil level but normally below 3 m
e.g.: shrubs

chamaephyte (cham.) subshrub
stems: herbaceous and/or woody and persisting for several years
buds: on or just above soil level, never above 50 cm
e.g.: Alyssum, Acaena, Acantholimon, Saxifraga

hemicryptophyte (hemicr.) perennial
stems: herbaceous, often dying back after the growing season, with shoots
at soil level surviving
buds: just on or below soil level
e.g.: Aster, Viola odorata

geophyte; plants with underground storage organs
hemicryptophytes that survive unfavourable seasons in the form of a rhizome, bulb, tuber or rootbud.
The term tuber is used here in a broad sense and includes every storage organ that is not a rhizome, bulb or rootbud.

helophyte (hel.) perennial marsh plant
hemicryptophytes that grow in soil saturated with water or in water. leaf and flower
bearing shoots rise above water
e.g.: Typha, Echinodorus

hydrophyte; aquatic plants
stems: vegetative shoots sunk in water
buds: permanently or temporarily on the bottom of the water

hydrohemicryptophyte (hydrohemicr.)
e.g. Stratioides

hydrogeophyte
e.g. Nymphaea, Nuphar

hydrotherophyte (hydrother.)
e.g. Lemna, Utricularia vulgaris

therophyte (ther.) annual
plants that survive unfavourable seasons in the form of seeds and complete their life-history during the favorable season.
e.g. annuals

Others

bamboo
biennial
pseudobulb
pachycaul
cereiform
cauduciform

Additional information

climbing (cl.)
e.g.: cl. phan.: Hedera helix
cl. nanophan.: Clematis florida
cl. hemicr.: Vicia cracca
cl. tuber geophyte: Tropaeolum tuberosum
cl. ther.: Pisum sativum
(cl.) nanophan: for plants that are sometimes climbing
succulent (succ.)
e.g.: succ. nanophan.: Opuntia ficus-indica
succ. cham.: Lophophora williamsii
succ. ther.: Sedum azureum
cl. succ. nanophan.: Cissus quadrangula

epiphytic and lithophytic
Growing on trees or rocks, without extracting nutrition from the host.

parasitic (par.)
hemiparasitic (hemipar.)
parasitic plants that are still able to photosynthesise
e.g. Viscum album is a hemipar. nanophan.
holoparasitic (holopar.)
parasitic plants that are fully dependent on their host
e.g. Orobanche ramosa is a holopar. ther.

holomycotroph (often incorrectly called saprophyte)
e.g. Neottia nidus-avis is holomycotroph.

####